---
layout: post
title: "tuffghost's Top XX of 2024"
date: 2024-12-20 02:00 -0500
categories: blog
---
Here's where I, like every time I make a yearly list, start off with a truly braindead little opener like, _"oh wow. There goes the year known as 2024. Huh. Crazy, crazy stuff"_ or whatever. And then I ramble on about some crap nobody cares about like how I'm feeling. Insufferable. But ah! You see, the kicker is, the fucked up thing of it all: _I like doing it_. Now is the time I have a captive audience. I bait you in with the promise of a list of albums I've liked and ah fuck, oh sorry, now you're reading about me. Got your ass!

As it goes, 2024 is an easy frontrunner for worst year of my life. For all the despair that financial ruin brings, having a job that strips you of your humanity feels even worse, especially at an age where dreams of making an enjoyable life for yourself have faded.

(more of this shit)

Well whatever. "Who cares". Anyway, the music. Yep. Keeping in line with my listening habits of the past couple years, I haven't done nearly as thorough of a job keeping up with recent music as I used to. Again I found myself taking deep dives into discographies more often than I sought out something new. Maybe this is the final sign of becoming a true Old Guy, and like an Old Guy my brain is growing hard and incurious. I'd like to think of this as untrue, of course, but one never knows now do they. Next list I make might start out with "they sure don't make 'em like they used to. And why won't any of these guys pick up a damn guitar?"

But enough kidding around, says the guy not really kidding around, here are some standouts in my artist (re-)discoveries and dives this year: Lankum, whose 2023 album was one I listened to last year but never gave enough time to and then blew my ass off this year; Mabe Fratti, who I am not yet done talking about on this list; Grails, a band I really liked at one point but hadn't listened to in years; Juana Molina, the GOAT; Ovlov, who ya just gotta love; Natural Snow Buildings, the band I listen to incessantly as the weather gets colder and the days shorter; Sun City Girls, the band that makes you wonder if cultural appreciation actually kicks ass. Thinking Fellers Union Local 282 might be one of the best bands to ever do it and I went _hard_ on them for a month or so. The death of Steve Albini had me not only on a heavy Big Black and Shellac kick, but also ravenously listening to the stuff he recorded. What a hell of a sound that guy could pick up on a microphone. Remember when Elvis Costello said Albini's engineering job ruined PJ Harvey's _Rid of Me_? Dumbass. Rube. Bad music too.

That reminds me: You know what's fun? Hating. Hating stuff rocks. And so I'm going to 
# **Shit I didn't like**

**Still House Plants - _If I don't make it, I love u_**

Man I just don't get this shit. It feels _so close_ to exactly the kind of thing I should be into but instead it's annoying as hell. I have nothing but contempt for the sort of person who believes that experimental or abstract art is a joke being played on an audience too eager to think of themselves as cultured, but fuck if that's not the exact vibe I get with this one.

**Mercury Rev - _Born Horses_**
  
I made a post about this one that was something like, "no other band has the courage to make an album this bad, which almost sounds like a compliment but I cannot overstate: it's not". This might actually be the album of the year in the sense that I _really_ urge you to turn this one on and hear it for yourself. "Hang on, is this good?" you might think at first. "Hm. Wait, why is he reciting the lyrics like this. Why does he sound like this. This is where it becomes normal right. Oh, he's still doing it. And now I'm paying attention to the lyrics too and that doesn't help. Well it must just be the first song. Onto the next. No way man. No way. He's still at it. Oh my god is this the whole album? There's no way this is the whole fucking album". My innocent friend, it is the whole fucking album.

**If I hear one fuckin person say the words "indie sleaze" in front of me again I swear to god**

text goes here



# **Matt Elliott - _Drinking Songs Live 20 years on_** (Ici d'ailleurs)


# 1. **Rafael Toral - _Spectral Evolution_** (Moikai)
oooh fuck ya. now this is nice